{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang3082{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.2.9200}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang10\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\b\fs36  STEVEN PINKER - \i The language instinct\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i0\fs28\par
\ulnone 3. Mentalese\par
\b0\fs24 In George Orwell's novel 1984, we are introduced to what the author calls Newspeak, a new language predicted to replace current English by  the year 2050. Since  thoughts were considered to depend on words, this process would consist in manipulating language in order to make thoughts that go against Ingsoc (English socialism) impossible, by eliminating all "heretical words" and keeping just the desirable meanings of words with several connotations. For instance, the word 'freedom' would no longer be used in its sense of political or intellectual freedom, but only in its sense of physical freedom.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1 In most of the social and politic fields, language is considered to determine and restrict thoughts. Intellectuals accuse gouvernments of trying to manipulate us with doublespeak, philosophers  claim that the lack of language converts animals into ignorant beings, feminists blame sexist thinking on sexist language, etc. One of the most famous theory supporting thoughts' dependance on words is the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis of linguistic determinism. This hypothesis, along with the linguistic relativity assumption, argues that language determines thoughts and that differences among languages create differences in their speakers' reasoning. In other words, the entire variety of reality it's considered to be imposed by one's culture. \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 But this conception of language being the same as thought, couldn't be more far from the truth. The mere fact that we frequently struggle to find the exact words to express whatever we're thinking, proves that we do not think in words. Otherwise this "looking for the right word" process would never occur, and we would never experience the feeling that what we want to communicate can't be expressed in words. \par

\pard\sl276\slmult1 There are a lot of other arguments against linguistic determinism, such as the fact that deaf people, despite their lack of verbal communication capacity, possess and develop multiple abstract ways of thinking, and they're still able to communicate with other people, even without spoken language. \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Many creative people claim to think in mental pictures (S.T.Colleridge, Joan Didion, James Surls), and physical scientists declare to have not a verbal, but a geometrical thinking. Albert Einstein himself explains that thinking consists of an inicial perception of specific symbols and some more or less clear images (physical entities) apt to be voluntarily generated and mixed, and a secondary association with words or any other signs. A large amount of investigations have arrived to the conclusion that "visual thinking uses not language but a mental graphics system , with operations that rotate, scan, zoom, pan, displace, an fill in patterns of contours."\par
The computational or representational theory of mind states that a physical symbol system (for example, a computer) has the necessary and sufficient means for intelligent actions. That means that if we provide computers with the appropriate symbol processing programs, they will be able to carry on intelligent actions. But this theory is overwhelmed by the inability of recognizing and efficiently solving problems like the ambiguity, the lack of logical explicitness, the synonomy, the deixis or the 'co-reference' existent in a language.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1 Summing up, we can undoubtedly conclude that we do not think in a verbal language, but in a language of thought - \i mentalese\i0 , that is universal and owned by every individual, no matter what his spoken language capacities are. The lack of language does not mean lack of thinking. There are concepts like freedom or equality, that would still exist in our minds, even if we were borned in a \i 'Newspeak'\i0  word, since they are intrinsic to human beings.\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 4. How language works\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs24 The language instinct focuses on the essential property of language, consisting in communicating news. There are two important principles behind language instinct: one is "the arbitrariness of the sign", represented by Ferdinand de Saussure, and its fundamental attribute of "making infinite use of finite media" (Wilhelm Von Humboldt, Chomsky).\par
The arbitrariness of the sign refers to the standard process of connecting sounds and meanings, so that members of a language community can be able to instantly communicate to one another, as they all use the same words with the same meanings.\b\fs28\par
\b0\fs24 Since language is based on a set of rules that experts denominate 'generative grammar', and this grammar is a "discrete combinatorial system" - that is to say a system that allows the formulation of an unlimited number of structures (sentences) by examining, connecting, exchanging, and transforming a finite amount of discrete elements (words) - therefore language has the wonderful capacity to make infinite use of finite media.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 So, language is possible because each person's brain holds a mental dictionary and a mental grammar, that permits a logical organization and combination of the words in the vocabulary.\par
The fact that  grammar is a discrete combinatorial system, has two important results. One is the obvious and undeniable magnitude of language, given by the infinite number of manners to create different sentences; the second one is the independence of grammar from knowledge, since it only indicates the way in which words must be connected in order to express meanings, without focusing on the specific significance of each word. That's why there are sentences that don't make sense, but must still be considered grammatical (\i Colorless green ideas sleep furiously\i0 ) and other sentences that we automatically identify as ungrammatical (\i This sentence no verb\i0 ), even if we're all able to understand what it's meant to signify.\par
The simpliest example of a discrete combinatorial system are the word-chain devices, consisting of a group of words lists and a set of directions for going from list to list, able to create an infinite amount of different combinations from a finite number of elements. Human language was thought to be based on an inmense word chain kept in people's brains, but as Chomsky would explain, this is nothing but a false statement. Human language can't be compared to word-chain devices. We learn a language by discovering and memorizing which word cathegory (noun, verb, adjective, etc.) follows which other cathegory. Here is where word-chain devices fail, they don't have the capacity to record these rules, since they can only 'remember' the last word list they have chosen from. \par

\pard\sl276\slmult1 Here are some general rules of English grammar:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1 A noun phrase (NP) consists of an optional determiner (det.), followed by any number of adjectives (A), followed by a noun (N).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}A sentence (S) consists of a noun phrase (NP) followed by a verb phrase (VP)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}A verb phrase (VP) consists of a verb (V) followed by a noun phrase (NP)\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
A 'phrase structure grammar' determines sentences by connecting its words to branches on an inverted tree. This system avoids the problem of word-chain devices, since a tree is 'modular' and allows people to use the same kind of phrase in many diverse positions in a sentence. The connection of words in the tree reveals the association between ideas in mentalese, showing that a sentence can have more than one meaning, depending on the way in which words have been linked.\par
\par
The next step in understanding how language works, consists in studying Chomsky's Universal Grammar theory. This theory claims that despite their many differences, all languages follow a common grammatical structure.\par
After deeply analising the design of the English grammar, the result is the creation of only two super-rules for the entire language: the differences between nouns, verbs, adejectives, and prepositions are all defined with the variable "X" (the X-bar theory). The first super-rule states that a phrase consists of an optional subject (SPEC) followed by an X-bar, followed by any number of modifiers; the second one claims that an X-bar consists of a head word (in NP, the noun, in VP the verb and so on), followed by any number of role-players (situated next to the head words, and before modifiers). These super-rules become valid for all phrases in all languages if we remove th left-to-right order from each super-rule. According to Chomsky, the unorganized super-rules are universal and innate. \par
The also chomskian theory of 'principles and parameters' states that the super-rules are a general principle for what prases should look like, that can only be used after being connected to a language's specific parameters (everything that makes it different from other languages) and its particular order. The principles and parameters of a language point out what type of elements can be used in a phrase and in what order. One thing that must always be taken into ccount is which are the verb's caractheristics and what are its demands (if it's transitive or intrasitive, if it demands a preposition, etc.). We must be able to distinguish between function words (articles, pronouns,conjunctions and so on) and content words (nouns, verbs, adejectives, etc.) in order to understand grammar and create correct sentences. \par
\par
The complexity of the grammar is an undeniable refutation of the empiricist theory stating that everything that exists in the mind existed first in the senses, since we cannot have any sensory experience of any of the grammar's elements. \par
The identification of the properties of syntax have meant a turning point in the psychology field, because they are an example of learning caused by the complexity of the mind, and not the other way around.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 7. Talking heads\par
\b0\fs24 For many years people have been frightened by the thought that robots or other programmed creations may take over the world.  Regarding the fear of being replaced by machines in our jobs, the safest employments are the ones that require language comprehension and fluent communication skills, since machines don't have these capacities, and they are not likely to ever learn our languages.\par
The way we understand and create sentences is exclusively ours. People understand language by parsing it. During language comprehension, our parser (part of the brain in charge of analising the structure of sentences) automatically examines each element of the sentence and clasifies them into phrases or parts of phrases, also determinating the kind of phrase (NP,VP, etc.). This is when the totality of the comprehension process comes to an end. The parser allows the movement of phrases, guided by the frequent combination of words given into a specific type of phrase. During this process, people must keep the phrase in mind, while constantly checking for the trace connected to it. The brain can be compared to a computer, since its function has many similarities with the computational operations, only that the brain is way more superior than any of the computer capacities. There is much more to understanding a sentence than parsing it. Not only we are able to create, memorize and comprehend grammatical sentences, but we also have the ability to give them sense. And this is an attribute that machines do not possess. \par

\pard\sl276\slmult1 Besides, human language has a huge amount of connotations, that only individuals are able to decod and enjoy. \par
The act of communicating relies on a mutual expectation of cooperation \par
between speaker and listener.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 